Start with Hooks provided by PHP chapter. (#71)
phpinternalsbook/PHP-Internals-Book: Book/php7/extensions_design/hooks.rst

MINIT, because other decisions inside the Zend Engine are made early based on
the fact if the pointers are overwritten or not.

The usual pattern for overwriting is this::

    static void (*original_zend_execute_ex) (zend_execute_data *execute_data);
    static void (*original_zend_execute_internal) (zend_execute_data *execute_data, zval *return_value);
    ZEND_DLEXPORT void my_execute_internal(zend_execute_data *execute_data, zval *return_value);
    ZEND_DLEXPORT void my_execute_ex (zend_execute_data *execute_data);

    PHP_MINIT_FUNCTION(my_extension)
    {
        REGISTER_INI_ENTRIES();

        original_zend_execute_internal = zend_execute_internal;
        zend_execute_internal = my_execute_internal;

        original_zend_execute_ex = zend_execute_ex;
        zend_execute_ex = my_execute_ex;

        return SUCCESS;
    }

    PHP_MSHUTDOWN_FUNCTION(my_extension)
    {
        zend_execute_internal = original_zend_execute_internal;
        zend_execute_ex = original_zend_execute_ex;

        return SUCCESS;
    }

One downside of overwriting ``zend_execute_ex`` is that it changes the Zend
Virtual Machine runtime behavior to use recursion instead of a hybrid mode that

> uses goto/switch. In addition a PHP engine without overwritten

Author: Yes, i knew this is something I didn't fully understand yet. Thanks for the clarification on the exact terms.

********************************

While overwriting the execute hooks an extension can record **every** function
call, you can also overwrite individual function pointers of userland core and
extension functions (and methods). This has much better performance
characteristics if an extension only needs access to specific internal function
calls.::

    #if PHP_VERSION_ID >= 70300
    #define EXT_FASTCALL ZEND_FASTCALL
    #else
    #define EXT_FASTCALL
    #endif

    #if PHP_VERSION_ID < 70200
    typedef void (*zif_handler)(INTERNAL_FUNCTION_PARAMETERS);
    #endif
    zif_handler original_handler_var_dump;

    void EXT_FASTCALL my_overwrite_var_dump(INTERNAL_FUNCTION_PARAMETERS)
    {
        // if we want to call the original function
        original_handler_var_dump(INTERNAL_FUNCTION_PARAM_PASSTHRU);
    }

    PHP_MINIT_FUNCTION(my_extension)
    {
        zend_function *original;

        original = zend_hash_str_find_ptr(EG(function_table), "var_dump", sizeof("var_dump")-1);

        if (original != NULL) {
            original_handler_var_dump = original->internal_function.handler;
            original->internal_function.handler = my_overwrite_var_dump;
        }
    }

> When overwriting a class method, then the function table can be found on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When overwriting a class method, the function table can be found on the
```

``zend_class_entry``.::

    zend_class_entry *ce = zend_hash_str_find_ptr(CG(class_table), "PDO", sizeof("PDO")-1);
    if (ce != NULL) {
        original = zend_hash_str_find_ptr(&ce->function_table, "exec", sizeof("exec")-1);

        if (original != NULL) {
            original_handler_pdo_exec = original->internal_function.handler;
            original->internal_function.handler = my_overwrite_pdo_exec;
        }
    }

Modifying the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)
****************************************

When PHP 7 compiles PHP code it converts it into an abstract syntax tree (AST)
before finally generating Opcodes that are persisted in Opcache. One lesser
known hook is called ``zend_ast_process`` for every compiled script and allows

> you to modify the AST after it is parsed and created.

Reviewer: Something is missing between "known hook is called zend_ast_process" and "for every compiled script".

Maybe just "The zend_ast_process hook is called for every compiled script".

This is one of the most complicated hooks to use, because it requires perfect
understanding of the AST possibilities. Creating an invalid AST here can cause

> weird behaivor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weird behavior.
```

- Based on Stackdriver this `Proof of Concept Tracer with AST <https://github.com/beberlei/php-ast-tracer-poc/blob/master/astracer.c>`_

Hooking into Script/File Compilation
************************************

Whenever a user script calls ``include``/``require`` or their counterparts
``include_once``/``require_once`` PHP core calls the function at the pointer
``zend_compile_file`` to handle this request. The argument is a file handle
and the result is a ``zend_op_array``.::

    zend_op_array * my_extension_compile_file(zend_file_handle *file_handle, int type);

There are two extensions in PHP core that implement this hook: dtrace and
opcache.

- If you start the PHP script with the environment variable ``USE_ZEND_DTRACE``
  and compiled PHP with dtrace support, then ``dtrace_compile_file`` is used
  from ``Zend/zend_dtrace.c``.

- Opcache stores op arrays in shared memory for better performance, so that
  whenever a script is compiled its final op array is served from a cache and
  not re-compiled. You can find this implementation in
  ``ext/opcache/ZendAccelerator.c``.

> - The default implementation is called ``compile_file`` is part of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default implementation is called ``compile_file`` and is part of the
```
or
```suggestion
- The default implementation called ``compile_file`` is part of the
```

>   generated scanner code in ``Zend/zend_language_scanner.c``.

Reviewer: I think it would be more useful to refer to `zend_language_scanner.l` here, rather than the generated code.

Use cases for implementing this hook are Opcode Accelerating, PHP code
encrypting/decrypting, debugging or profiling.

You can replace this hook whenever you want in the execution of a PHP process
and all PHP scripts compiled after the replacement will be handled by your
implementation of the hook.

It is very important to always call the original function pointer, otherwise
PHP cannot compile scripts anymore and Opcache will not work anymore.

The extension overwriting order here is also important as you need to be

> careful to make sure yourregister your hook before or after Opcache, because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
careful whether you register your hook before or after Opcache, because
```

Opcache does not call the original function pointer if it finds an opcode array

> entry in its shared memory cache.

Reviewer: Question: How do you control whether you register before or after opcache?

Author: good question, since its a zend_extension isn't it loaded after all other extensions anyways? It would make sense to clarify here how you can do that, but i need to dive into it.

Reviewer: It looks like opcache overrides the hook during zend_post_startup, which happens after init for both extensions and zend_extensions. So unless you also specifically hook into there you'll always register before opcache.

register itself as error handler by implementing the ``zend_error_cb`` hook.::

    ZEND_API void (*zend_error_cb)(int type, const char *error_filename, const uint32_t error_lineno, const char *format, va_list args);

The ``type`` variable corresponds to the ``E_*`` error constants that are also
available in PHP userland.

The relationship between PHP core and userland error handlers is complex:

1. If no userland error handler is registered then ``zend_error_cb`` is always
   called.
2. If userland error handler is registered, then for all errors of ``E_ERROR``,
   ``E_PARSE``, ``E_CORE_ERROR``, ``E_CORE_WARNING``, ``E_COMPILE_ERROR`` and
   ``E_COMPILE_WARNING`` the ``zend_error_cb`` hook is always called.
3. For all other errors, the ``zend_error_cb`` is only called if the userland
   handler fails or returns ``false``.

In addition Xdebug overwrites the error handler in a way that does not call
previously registered internal handlers, because of its complex own
implementation.

As such overwriting this hook is not very reliable.

Again overwriting should be done in a way that respects the original handler

> unless you want to completly replace it::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unless you want to completely replace it::
```

    {
        // my special error handling here

        original_zend_error_cb(type, error_filename, error_lineno, format, args);
    }

    PHP_MINIT_FUNCTION(my_extension)
    {
        original_zend_error_cb = zend_error_cb;
        zend_error_cb = my_error_cb;

        RETURN SUCCESS;
    }

    PHP_MSHUTDOWN(my_extension)
    {
        zend_error_cb = original_zend_error_cb;
    }

This hook is mainly used to implement central exception tracking for Exception
Tracking or Application Performance Management software.

Notification when Exception is thrown
*************************************

Whenever PHP Core or userland code throws an exception the
``zend_throw_exception_hook`` is called with the exception as argument.

This hooks' signature is fairly simple::

    void my_throw_exception_hook(zval *exception)
    {
        if (original_zend_throw_exception_hook != NULL) {
            original_zend_throw_exception_hook(exception);
        }
    }

This hook has no default implementation and points to ``NULL`` if not
overwritten by an extension.

::

    static void (*original_zend_throw_exception_hook)(zval *ex);

>     void my_throw_exception_hook(zval *exception TSRMLS_DC);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    void my_throw_exception_hook(zval *exception);
```

    PHP_MINIT_FUNCTION(my_extension)
    {
        original_zend_throw_exception_hook = zend_throw_exception_hook;
        zend_throw_exception_hook = my_throw_exception_hook;

        return SUCCESS;
    }

> If you implement this hook be aware that this hook is called if the exception

Reviewer: if -> whether / regardless of whether

whether the exception is caught or not. It can still be useful to temporarily
store the exception here and then combine this with an implementation of the
Error Handler hook to check if the exception was uncaught and caused the script
to halt.

Use-cases to implement this hook include debugging, logging and exception
tracking.

Hooking into eval()
*******************

PHPs ``eval`` is not an internal function but a special language construct. As
such you cannot hook into it through ``zend_execute_internal`` or by
overwriting its function pointer.

Use cases for hooking into eval are not that many, you can use it for profiling
or for security purposes. If you change its behavior be aware that other extensions
may need eval. One example is Xdebug that uses it to execute breakpoint conditions.

::

    extern ZEND_API zend_op_array *(*zend_compile_string)(zval *source_string, char *filename);

Hooking into the Garbage Collector
**********************************

PHPs Garbage Collector can be triggered explicitly when ``gc_collect_cycles()``
is called or implicitly by the engine itself when the number of collectable
objects reaches a certain theshold.

> To allow understanding of how the garabage collector works or to profile its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow understanding of how the garbage collector works or to profile its
```

performance, you can overwrite the function pointer hook that performs the
garbage collection operation. Theoretically you can implement your own garbage
collection algorithm here, but given other changes to the engine would probably
be necessary this probably is not really feasible.

::

    int (*original_gc_collect_cycles)(void);

    int my_gc_collect_cycles(void)
    {
        original_gc_collect_cycles();
    }

    PHP_MINIT_FUNCTION(my_extension)
    {
        original_gc_collect_cycles = gc_collect_cycles;
        gc_collect_cycles = my_gc_collect_cycles;

        return SUCCESS;
    }

Overwrite Interrupt Handler
***************************

The interrupt handler is called once when the executor global

> ``EG(vm_interrupt)`` is set to 1. This is checked after every opcode.  The

Reviewer: It's not checked after every opcode, just often enough (e.g. on loop backedges) that a check will occur at some point (short of an internal function never returning).

engine uses this hook to implement the PHP execution timeout via a signal
handler that sets the interrupt to 1 after the timeout duration is reached.

You can implement the interrupt helper yourself and trigger it by setting
``EG(vm_interrupt) = 1`` in your extension.

This can be helpful to implement debuggers, sampling profilers or your own

> timeout handling. By setting this hook you cannot accidently disable the

Reviewer: For both debugging and profiling vm_interrupt is not great, because it will only interrupt at some point in the future. I would put the emphasis on signal handling here: You can defer processing of a signal that may occur at any time until a point where it is safe to interact with the engine (e.g. if you want to run PHP code).

timeout check of PHP, because it has a customized handling that has higher
priority than any ``zend_interrupt_function`` hook overwrite.

::

    ZEND_API void (*original_interrupt_function)(zend_execute_data *execute_data);

    void my_interrupt_function(zend_execute_data *execute_data)
    {

>         original_interrupt_function(execute_data);

Reviewer: Need to check for null?
